When you start learning about agentic AI frameworks, you come across so many terms that it's easy to get confused. In this video, I will make an attempt to give a very simple explanation of the difference between these three.

So let's start with the basics. When you take any LLM, GPT, Claude, Gemini, etc, it is trained on some huge volume of internet data. So if you ask a general question like this, it will be able to answer. But let's say you have this clothing store called Sharmaji E-Commerce, for which you are building a chatbot which is powered by LLM, and if you ask a question, "What is the refund policy on t-shirt?", it won't be able to answer it because it doesn't have access to your private organizational data.

To solve this problem, you build a RAG chatbot, which is retrieval augmented generation, where you provide your policy documents to LLM, and it will be able to then fetch the answer out of those documents.

So here, step-by-step, what you're doing is, you are first retrieving the documents, then you are splitting it into chunks to take care of the context window for LLM, then you store it in vector database for semantic search later on, then you retrieve and call LLM and so on.

Now, you can do all of this in Python, but LangChain is a beautiful framework that makes these things easier by providing ready-made classes. So for this, it will have TextLoader, these are all the classes from LangChain library.

If you categorize LLM-powered applications into two groups, then those two groups, as per Anthropic's building effective agents guide, are workflows and agents. Workflows is basically a software where one of the component is LLM, and remaining things are joined by a predefined code path, just like any usual software. So let's say you might be loading data from somewhere, then you're doing some preprocessing, and then you use LLM, let's say, to extract information out of that text, or to do something else, okay? Then you have one other step, then you might have another LLM call. So, this is like a usual software. It is just that that LLM is one or more component in in that software ecosystem. This kind of thing is called chain, and LangChain is a framework that makes building LLM-powered applications easy. Especially, it is used mainly to build straightforward chains, whatever we saw. So, there are steps that you follow to build your application, and one of the step is LLM. So, here LLM is not making any autonomous decision. It is given a predefined task, that okay, from this text, extract this information, or summarize this information. And remaining thing is all your Python or whatever programming language you are using is just code, okay?

Now, let's say you want to build a complex chatbot, where customer is asking, "I want to exchange my t-shirt for a different item using my gift points," and you will then ask for order ID, right? This is not something you can just answer in one shot. Then they will provide order ID. Now you'll say, "Okay, now with which item you want to replace?". So they provide SKU, and there is some interaction, there is some kind of a multi-turn approach here.

To summarize the steps, you have to check first the refund policy for the item that they are returning. Then you check order details in the database to make sure that, you know, the item is eligible and what was the price and so on. Then you check availability of the new item, order new item, print shipping label for old item. So, this is not like a simple question, "Okay, what is my refund policy? 30 days." This requires multiple steps, multiple clarification, it's a complex flow. And in each of the flow, for refund policy, you might have to access your policy documents. For checking order details, you might have to hit some database. For checking availability of a new item, you might be calling some microservice, some API. And to print label, you might be using some other software. And in each of these steps, LLM will be involved, okay? So, LLM, either in all the steps or some of the steps, LLM will be there. And along with LLM, you have documents, database, API, etc, which will help you perform all this task.

So, you are essentially doing goal-oriented planning. For a return that customer want to perform in the exchange of a new item, you first figure out all this four steps. Then you do multi-step reasoning, multi-step planning, you perform this steps, one-by-one. Now let's say some of the steps might fail, okay? So, "check the availability of new item", let's say it fails, you might have to hit different API, different colors, something, something like that, you know? Then you have access to tools, right? These are tools, knowledge, knowledge is PDF and databases, knowledge API, etc, are called tools, alright?

So, this is an agentic chatbot. Agentic chatbot works on a complex task. It will divide it into multiple subtasks, then it will perform them one-by-one. Let's say second step fails, it will retry it, okay? So there is a component of retry, feedback, etc. Just like how as humans we do the work. Let's say you are doing coding, you run the code, you find an error, then you fix the error, you know, you again run the code. Then you find let's say another issue, then you fix that. So it's iterative approach. Agentic chatbot has some kind of autonomy and it will do this kind of multi-step iterative approach to accomplish a goal.

Now, one of the popular design for building agentic application is graph-based stateful workflow. What I mean by that is, let's say you start somewhere and you are making an LLM call, okay? And then LLM will decide what to do as a next step. So let's say there is some conditional logic and LLM might decide to perform step A or step B, or it might decide to make another call to a different LLM. Same way when you are here, this LLM can also autonomously, I mean, there'll be some kind of prompt that will be given, but the actual decision is made by this LLM in autonomous way. It can perform either step C, D, E, etc, or it can actually call back to the original LLM, so there are four possible code paths. So, this is a stateful workflow represented as a graph.

And LangGraph is a framework to orchestrate multi-step stateful workflows using graph-based structure.

Here I'm showing you a code of one of the graphs we built in in LangGraph. So you import all these libraries, okay? And then you have a this tool. So tool is a dummy Python tool, it just gets the latest price of any stock, Microsoft, Apple, etc. And then you design the graph like this. So if I show you, the graph is nothing but you start, then there is a chatbot, and as a tool you have that function, the, you know, get stock price function, okay? So when you perform all this steps, eventually when you say, "I want to buy 20 Amazon stocks," it will be able to call that function, get the price, and then, you know, is performing those steps to kind of call the tool multiple times and then give you a total amount for your entire stock transaction. If you want to learn LangGraph in detail, then I have this tutorial, it's like more than one hour tutorial, which will walk you through the entire framework from the very beginning.

Let's summarize the difference between these two. So LangChain is a toolkit that allows you to build LLM apps. Chains, tools, agents. Whereas LangGraph is a framework that is used mainly for agents. So just remember, if you are writing a simple linear workflows, you use LangChain. But if you want to build complex agents, use LangGraph. Style for LangChain is linear and reactive. Reactive means like you give some task, it will return the response, okay, input-output. Whereas LangGraph has a graph-based, supports it supports loops, retries, you know, it will retry to fix the error and kind of get the thing done, it also has a memory. Best use case for LangChain is simple chatbot, RAG, etc. LangGraph is, as I said, multi-step workflows, complex agents. And LangChain is partially stateful, where LangGraph has a state in that graph. So if you refer to my LangGraph tutorial, you will get better understanding, just in case if you don't know about graphs and states. And here are the example use cases.

Now what is LangSmith? Well, LangSmith is a debugging and observability platform, folks. So if you look at the architecture, I'll say this is an entire like ecosystem where you have LangChain and LangGraph. They they both are open source, okay? Then you have LangSmith, which is doing the work of debugging, playground, prompt management, monitoring, you know. So let's say if you deploy the agentic AI system in the production, you want to monitor whether it's performing well, you want to monitor your token cost. Okay? It's not like you're spending millions of dollars in your token cost. So all of those failures, evaluation, all of those things are done through LangSmith.

So here is a LangSmith UI, where there is this demo app, and really here you can see all the individual calls, right? You call vector database, then you call ChatGPT, okay, what was the input? What was the output? How many tokens did you use? 390. What was the latency? So you can monitor all of that. This is just tracing, but you can do much more than this. If you want to learn these things in detail, once again, I have complete tutorials. If you have any questions, please post in the comment box below. I hope you got some understanding of LangChain, LangGraph, and LangSmith. If you like this video, give it a thumbs up and share it with your friends.